I bow to all the seekers of truth.
You have just now heard that within us lies
the power of our ascent, ascent to the Divine.
Now maybe there are some people who can say
"How?
How do You say that?
What's Your authority?"
Naturally, one can ask such a question.
But as a scientist we have to keep our minds
open to any knowledge.
I say this is the knowledge of the roots.
Why?
Whatever we have known so far is the knowledge
of the tree.
It sounds fantastic sometimes to people how
can the awakening of the Kundalini or the
Holy Ghost as described in the Bible can bring
forth this tremendous change; this transformation
and all the benefits of physical, mental,
emotional and material being within us.
It's impossible to believe because it's too
fantastic.
But we don't realize that how fantastically
we are made by God Almighty.
We take Him so much for granted.
When we make a computer in this world we feel
we have done a great job.
But do you know you yourself you are a computer
which knows without thinking.
I see you and I know I see you.
I don't have to go back to some sort of a
programming to find out what am I seeing;
is also spontaneous and living.
All the living things are created by the living
God and then we know that we have come to
this stage of human awareness; from here if
we have to ascend, there must be some method,
mechanism within us.
Now some may say that why should we seek.
There's no why about it.
Because you see the confusion all along, you
see what's happening to people.
There are so many thought waves coming up
like 'we must look after our health', 'we
must look after our mind'.
There are so many sorts of theologies and
also many intellectual expositions and manifestations;
that one gets absolutely confounded and can't
understand where are we.
Naturally in this confusion one feels very
frustrated and wants to find out what are
we here for?
Any intelligent sincere person, honest person
thinks that way.
'Why am I here?'
Of course for the frivolous, they can manage
for some time.
They can continue for one or two lives till
they become little bit concerned but normally
any intelligent person would think that I
have been made a human being for what?
What is the purpose of my being a human being
from the animal stage?
Then people say that you are a human being
now you forget about your creator; you forget
about anything like that and you think you
are the creator.
You just believe that you are the one who
has to rule the whole world.
That's how we create a barrier between ourselves
and the truth.
The truth exists and God exists whether we
believe in it or not.
Actually blind faith is not going to take
us to God.
The faith has to be based on experience which
is called as 'shraddha'.
It has to be based on experience of the truth.
Supposing, I have not been to this room; I
have not seen it; I don't know what it is
and I started describing it and if you believe
Me, then I would say it's just a brain wash
and it has been nothing but a talk and talk
and talk about God throughout.
The reason was the human beings were not ready
at that time I should say to get to their
Realization.
We had few people very few in the last say
sixth to the modern times.
I asked a Zen master, "How many realized souls
you had?
'Kashyapas'"
And he said, "We had altogether only twenty
four 'Kashyapas' from the sixth Century to
the thirteenth Century and we had none."
So I said, "Then what are you doing there?
You are a Zen Master and you are not a realized
soul."
So he said, "I am doing my job."
A priest, I must say John Clover is also a
priest; and a priest very well known personality
and I asked him, "What do you mean by Holy
Ghost?"
So he says, "I am agnostic."
I said, "Then, what are you doing in the church?"
So he says "I am doing my job."
I was surprised!
What sort of a job you can do when you do
not know what you are talking?
You are professing something about which you
yourself are not sure.
You yourself you are not a free soul and you
are talking about freedom of the soul; is
something like a advertising department.
So people start wondering, is there anything
like God?
And no wonder that so many have discarded
as nothing.
But the time has come now to prove the existence
of God.
The time has now come to prove all the miracles
of the scriptures.
At this time only there's a controversy should
come up that there were no miracles and the
time has come to prove that.
Isn't it surprising that spontaneously at
this time only all these intellectuals are
coming out with their novel ideas?
And that this is the time we can prove it
that there is God.
We can prove it that there is Kundalini, the
Holy Ghost and we can prove it that there
is Spirit and that a human being can ascend.
I think the background is so dark that the
light will show better and that has to happen.
In these modern times, I find if you talk
to anybody about God, they will laugh at you.
Is not regarded fashionable to talk about
God but despite of all that in the modern
times we have the maximum numbers of seekers.
We never had so many seekers at any time.
Think of Christ, he had those twelve disciples
who did not believe in Him till they saw His
resurrection.
I mean they did not believe in Him fully,
I mean to say.
Look at Buddha or look at anyone of these
people.
Mohammad Saab, how they tortured his life?
And they all have talked about this time as
the resurrection time because before the doomsday
the resurrection has to come.
But the people who are in-charge of the, there
are people who have taken their charge in
this world.
Will not believe that there can be redemption,
that there could be resurrection because it's
a money making proposition.
I met a Mayor today in the morning of another
place and he told Me, he asked Me actually
"Why people become so fanatic about religion?"
I said, "Because it is a money making proposition
everywhere".
Any money making proposition has to be fanatic
because you have to be successful money wise
and also compromising.
It's an enterprise and God doesn't understand
money, that's the worst part of it.
He doesn't know what money is.
He does all that is living what human beings
do is nothing but they convert dead to another
dead.
Now for example some tree is dead, we make
a bench out of it; from dead to dead.
But can we transform these flowers into fruits?
We do not.
And the one who does billions and billions
of these at the time, at the right time, proper
seasons, who must be that?
Whatever we have done so far is the dead work.
But the work of God is the living work and
the living work of God is evident in our own
existence that we have become human beings
from amoeba stage and that if higher ascent
has to take place it has to take place through
some spontaneous happening meaning living
happening not by some artificial things like
in the Hindu religion we have a ceremony called
as 'munja' where the, at eight years of age
they say the child has now become a Brahmin,
means he has known the all pervading power
of Brahma, of Holy Ghost, certified.
As we have in Christian religion also in the
churches they'll put their hand and your head
and say now you have become Christian, Baptized.
How Sir?
Just an exercise and we believe in it.
We accept the situation and we believe that
we are that.
Mohammad Saab has said, "You have to become
the Pir."
There's no religion which has not said that
human awareness is for just balancing yourself.
That's the religion is.
It's like trial and error and trial and error;
that you make mistakes improve yourself, make
mistakes improve yourself.
You move from one extreme to another as you
see here to the left or to the right and then
you come to the center and the central path
of ascent is within us and which we achieve
through our moderation and not through our
extremes and those who go to extremes and
become fanatic are people who are not religious
by any chance because religion must give you
a balance.
That's the first thing one must attain, attain
through religion.
Now within us lies the power of our ascent
and the path of our ascent and on this path
we have got different centers which represent
something very subtle within us.
As I told you this is the knowledge of the
roots.
Supposing a tree is sick we see the leaves
are falling.
So we take one leaf.
First of all once if we pluck it out it is
already finished.
But even on the tree we try to inject something
to the leaf, does it reach the whole of the
tree?
It does not.
If you have to cure that tree, you have to
go to the roots.
In the same way within ourselves these centers
are placed and the root has to be awakened
so that it passes through all these centers,
enlightens all these centers and give you
the ultimate that we call as the true Baptism
or Self Realization or in Sanskrit knowledge
they say 'Atma Sakshathkar'.
Now where does the Spirit reside?
The Spirit resides in our heart.
Now this is a hypothesis for you.
You need not accept.
But keep your mind open for it.
But the seat of God almighty is on top of
your head though the reflection of that as
the Spirit is in the heart.
When this Kundalini which is called as the
Root also or is called as the Holy Ghost,
which is the reflection of the Holy Ghost,
which is the power of God, which is the Primodial
Mother, which is your individual Mother rises
and when it touches that point the Spirit
in your heart starts emitting these cool vibrations.
First you feel it here coming out of your
head, the Cool Breeze.
This happens.
This is not artificial you can even see in
many people the pulsation of the Kundalini
very clearly just like a heart or in that
bone, which is just a bone; pulsates like
a heart, when there is an obstruction in the
higher centers.
Now the subtle side of these centers are that
the first center is related to our innocence.
Have we bothered to find out how are we innocent
in our childhood?
What is that creates innocence within us?
Then the second center that we have is the
center of Swadishthana which deals with the
creativity that we have.
Now God has made human beings in his image.
He has the same centers within Him which He
reflects within us.
So with this center He has created all this
universe.
This is for the creativity.
The third center within us, which is the naval
center, which looks after the solar plexus
on the gross, is called as the Nabhi Chakra
meaning the naval center and is responsible
for giving us the seeking.
We should know why do we seek.
Why do we seek food to begin with?
We feel hungry, but how do we know that we
are hungry and that we want food?
Even a child knows that, even an animal knows
that; how?
This is the center tells us that now you are
hungry better go and have some food.
And this is the center tells us now you better
seek some money, maybe some power, maybe all
the human things that we seek and waste our
life quite a lot in that.
After that when you are affluent when you
have solved all these mundane things like
no more we are living in the jungles like
animals.
Then we start thinking that there must be
something beyond because I have got everything
now but I haven't got joy.
I don't feel joyous.
I am not satisfied, what is that?
When this seeking starts then you are a special
category of seekers for which William Blake
has clearly written very, very clearly two
hundred years back he said that men of God
will become prophets and they will have powers
to make others prophets and that is today's
Sahaja Yoga.
This seeking is a special category of people
who we find now a days all over the world.
That's why I said it at the very outset that
you do not find so many seekers, in the history
of spirituality so many seekers.
But today there are thousands and thousands;
I would say millions and millions of seekers.
But what happens to them?
Again they get lost.
Some start getting lost in the intellectual
understanding of God, finished.
How can you understand God with this limited
brain?
He's unlimited.
You have to go beyond this mind to understand.
What can we understand of that God who does
all these marvelous things of living processes
which we cannot do even a wee bit with this
brain of ours?
So some are lost in the books and some are
lost in the organized religions, finished.
Sunday morning have a nice dress, go to the
church, I have done my work as far as God
is concerned.
Or I would say for a Hindu is to go to the
temple, take some money give it to the Brahmin
there, done.
So they are also lost in it.
Then there are lots of markets now a days.
We have 'spiritualists' and we have 'charismatics'
and we have got 'seventh day adventist' and
'born again'; all sorts.
They are only same people with different brands.
There's no difference between one human being
and another, even if you put any brand on
our head we are just the same.
There is no difference at all.
They may profess something, but whatever you
profess is not within you.
So it is not what you profess is important,
but what you become.
Becoming is the point.
What you become on your central nervous system.
That is the evolutionary impact.
When we evolve from animal to human state
it is expressed on our central nervous system.
For example if you have to take a dog through
a dirty lane, he has no objection, he just
walks through.
But we cannot go.
Now you bring a dog here in a good garden,
he's quite happy, he doesn't know whether
it is a beautiful garden of flowers or it's
a dirty lane.
But for a human being this awareness is there
and he can feel it.
Now to human beings if you talk of sin this
that, they don't understand.
They'll say, "What's wrong?
What's wrong?"
"If I kill somebody what's wrong?"
"If I do like this what's wrong?"
Because the awareness is at that level.
But Christ, would He do such a thing?
Buddha, would He do such a thing?
Khalil Gibran, would he do such a thing?
William Blake?
No, why?
Because they are above us and their sense
and sensitivity has developed in such a manner
that they are the people who know what is
right and what is wrong.
So we live in a relative world.
We must accept this.
We have no sense of absolute and even if we
have it is told to us from our fathers, forefathers
or in the church or in the temple somewhere;
is all conditioning.
We do not know for definite whether it is
right or wrong because we haven't got that
awareness.
So what has to happen to you is that you have
to become collectively conscious that means
you can feel your own centers on your finger
tips.
That is Self-Realization, you know your Self
and you should feel the centers of other people
on your finger tips and so that you know what
is wrong with another person or what is wrong
with you.
But you are so much separated from yourself
like it becomes your cloth, the whole body,
the ego, the superego that you know it is
wrong and you clear it out, if you know the
technique.
This is the another meaning of the word Yoga.
The first meaning is that Yoga is the union
with the Divine; also Yoga means to be deft
in the art of God's love, in the technique
of Divine laws; this is the another meaning.
Yoga doesn't mean standing on your head.
That's just a misnomer, because some people
have got very little knowledge about things
and they start saying this is Yoga.
But I mean Patanjali who has talked about
it thousands of years back has described nothing
but Sahaja Yoga; is the spontaneous union,
spontaneous union with the Divine.
That's what he has described out and out but
who reads that big book.
Yoga you can buy in three pages you see.
Stand on your head; bend your feet, but why?
We too have to do some exercises in Sahaja
Yoga but the Kundalini has to rise and tell
us where it is obstructed accordingly we do
the exercise.
Supposing you have a trouble on your head
and you do the stomach exercises, the stomach
will be spoilt for nothing at all.
As it is you have a headache plus the stomach
is also spoilt.
So it is a big science one has to understand.
But it is so simple as a child.
Now this child is a realized soul he knows
because you become the absolute.
Now if you want to know whether there is God
or not you just put your hands like this and
ask the question, "Mother is there God?"
When you ask the question you'll get tremendous
Cool Breeze flowing.
Is like a computer, an absolute computer.
Now you ask a question, "Was Christ the son
of God?"
You get tremendous; but ask about Rasputin
"Was he a saint?"
I don't want to ask because it might burn
My hand.
That's how you know the absolute.
Afterwards you don't need also to use the
hands, just without that you know and that
is what the state one has to achieve, that
is the final break-through we have to achieve
because this modern times as they say, these
are the times that are described as the resurrection
time, the judgment time and this is the time
that people have to judge themselves.
Your own Spirit will judge you.
Nobody is going to put you on a weighing machine
to see what have you got.
Your own centers will be judged by you yourself.
You become your own master, your own Guru
and you judge yourself and correct it.
You judge others and correct it.
But you don't tell them, you speak in a strange
language as the disciples of Christ spoke.
You talk in the language of centers.
Like you ask somebody, "What's the matter
with this person?"
So he'll say, "His left Vishuddhi is catching."
Means he feels guilty.
If you feel guilty your left Vishuddhi catches.
We went to Nottingham today and there was
a taxi fellow who came in.
We sat in the car and I knew he was a realized
soul.
And he started talking to Me.
He also took to Me easily and he confessed
to Me, "Mother I am a healer."
I knew he was a, everybody knew that he was
a realized soul.
He did not know much about it because he's
not a Sahaja Yogi to know all the deftness
of it.
But he knew that he was something different
and a very gentle and a sweet personality
he had.
And while talking I asked him, "What's the
matter with you?
Why do you feel so guilty?"
He said, "I don't know but I feel like a criminal."
I said, "Why?"
"Because everybody thinks I am queer."
I said, "In a lunatic asylum if a saint man
goes everybody thinks that he is insane.
So you must not feel that way, you should
have all full confidence in yourself."
But he was so surprised that I could tell
all these things about him.
I said, "Anybody would say because we know
what you feel on your finger tips.
It's nothing great that we are doing."
Because supposing, dog cannot talk to us,
but supposing we tell the dog that this is
music, Indian music.
He will ask, "How do you know it is Indian
music?"
Because we know, we can hear.
You can't hear; you cannot differentiate.
But we don't take such pride in saying that
we know this color or we know that thing and
we know what is art, what is not.
We think it is our own right to know and we
know it.
In the same way once you get your Realization
you just know it because you become.
So becoming is the main thing that you become
a realized soul, a saint, a sage, a seer,
but as a result of this awakening because
it passes through various centers, into various
layers.
First thing that happens to you; first thing
I must say that you get your physical body
cured.
That's how Sahaja Yoga cures cancer.
What is so great about it?
It does and it's only this Sahaja Yoga that
is going to cure cancer.
Otherwise you'll take chemotherapy, loose
your hair, then they'll cut your throat and
cut your nose and you'll end up by parts,
you see and when one will die it won't be
in one piece.
But in Sahaja Yoga the Kundalini rises and
she supplies the necessary vital forces to
all these centers and you get cured.
Practically everything that is to be repaired
can be repaired if the stage is not very much
advanced.
If the stage is very much advanced then the
Divine takes a decision that let this body
die and come back again in a fresher way.
Then it allows it to die.
But mostly if it is in a repairing stage without
taking any medicine, without going to any
doctor, without anything you can cure yourself.
It's not difficult.
It transforms your personality in the sense
that your priorities change completely.
I don't have to tell you 'don't do this'.
That I will not say because then half of you
may run away.
But it will happen in such a manner that you
yourself won't do that.
I don't have to tell you at all.
Because firstly if you try to do it you will
lose your vibrations you feel unhappy.
You'll lose your joy and peace and maybe your
body may react and that it may vomit out the
thing or it may make you very painful so that
you just don't do it.
You become righteousness, you become virtuous
and you enjoy your virtues.
You don't force your virtues on others you
just say that one day he should get Realization.
The concern is as if a part of your body is
sick and you want to soothe it and put it
right.
No obligation, nothing.
If somebody is drowning himself actually part
of you is getting drowned that's why you jump
into it.
But here actually you feel the another person
and if you know how to cure that then there's
no obligation at all because there is a part
and parcel of your being.
Supposing this finger is paining and if I
rub it.
Am I obliging myself?
But it is so spontaneous it is so automatic
that the idea also doesn't come into your
head that you have obliged him.
It's so simple.
This is the power of God's love.
We have never used that before because we
were not capable of doing that.
All these wars and all these problems of the
world are because we are using the power of
hatred.
We talk of peace but how will you make peace
on this earth when the people are so disturbed?
The source of peace is the Spirit and if the
whole world or a part of it and a very wee
part of it accepts that they should have their
Spirit manifesting and they establish themselves
you'll see all these problems will vanish
into thin air.
As it is in your private life they vanish
out.
Everything becomes smooth joyous happy.
The relationships become very pure and you
really enjoy human beings for the first time.
Otherwise it is just we'll say "Oh we are
brothers, brothers, brothers.
We are sisters, we are this that."
When it comes to selfishness everything drops
out because it's just a mental projection.
Even countries will say we are all friends,
we are going to help, but when it comes to
something important they drop out.
But this is no mental projection, is reality.
Become that and that should happen to many,
many people by that a kind of a catalysism
will take place and the whole world has to
be changed as promised.
Those days are ahead, is working out very
well, I have worked in this England for ten
years.
In India hardly two years, but thousands and
thousands in the villages are now Sahaja Yogis.
They have given up all their bad habits.
They have become masters of themselves.
Even I would say in England we have quite
a lot of Sahaja Yogis, but still is a very
important place is England because it plays
a very important role in spirituality because
it is the heart of the universe and the heart
has to pump out the truth.
It's pumping out all kind of nonsense on the
television.
Today on the television they gave Me hardly
thirty seconds first and then three minutes.
What do I do in three minutes, but for a joker
or a clown or for absolutely useless person
there will be hours together.
This is the problem that we have to face,
but I am sure when the chaos will be seen
clearly people will ask for the answer and
when they seek that they will receive what
they are seeking.
That is a promise and the promise has to be
fulfilled.
All that is promised in the scriptures has
to be fulfilled.
May God bless you all.
Now if you have any problems please ask me.
Today I had a very, very hectic day.
The whole day I have been moving from places
to places and somehow you have been so kind
to come here and I am sure we'll get the experience
tonight.
But in any case if you have any questions
please ask.
Is important.
From the seekers: May I ask a question Mataji?
Mother: Yes please.
From the seekers: Is it possible to awaken
Kundalini without a spring guidance like You
because You are not available to us so only
by reading books?
Mother: Yes it is possible.
Only
Sahaja Yogi: 'Only by reading books' she said
Mother: By reading books.
No, no, no not at all.
Kabir Das has said "Padhi, padhi pandita murakha
bhayei".
That by reading too much even the learned
have become stupid.
Seeker: So how could we have Divine guidance
like You?
Mother: What you have to do first of all is
to know that it's a living process and for
any living process you don't need mental understanding.
Just I have talked to you because after all
you are very intelligent people.
But supposing we want to sprout a seed what
do we do?
We put it in the Mother Earth and it sprouts.
Do we give it a lecture before hand?
All right do we do anything?
It is built-in in the seed as well as in the
Mother Earth the capacity to do it.
So of course you have to have somebody who
has the capacity.
Satguru is the real Guru.
But these days they are all in the market;
all making money.
First thing is no money can be paid for sprouting
of the seed; first principle.
Ninety nine point nine percent [99.9%] will
drop out on that point and is said that 'Sahib
Milaye'.
The one who makes you meet the Divine is the
Guru.
The one who talks and gives lecture is not
the Guru.
But these days there are some very great Gurus
but they are hiding themselves in the Himalayas
and I sent one of them with great request
to America that please go and do some work
in America I won't be able to go.
He stayed in New York for three days and ran
back into Himalayas.
He said, "The people are at a very lower level
you see, they just talk of dollar."
He ran away.
So they don't want to deal just now perhaps
maybe after sometime if they see that the
area is all right, they may come down.
But there are many great saints all over the
world.
But sort of they have receded themselves.
First you all become saints and they will
all come to join.
Seeker: To become saint is very difficult.
Mother: Who told you that?
Seeker: Afreed
Mother: It is the easiest thing.
Living process is the easiest.
But we are so difficult we don't want to eat
like this we want to go round and eat, then
say...It is the simplest thing.
'Sahaja Samadhi Lago', Sahaja you get it.
Is said by everyone who said it is difficult?
Who has said it tell me?
No one.
'Ek hi akshar premaka pade so pandita ho'.
Who has said it?
Did Christ say so?
Did Buddha say so?
Nobody said.
But they could not do it because people were
difficult.
So they said all right go ahead, carry on.
Krishna at the very outset of Gita he said
that you find yourself.
You become a 'sthita pragya'.
You become a realized soul, at the very outset.
But Arjuna says, "But how You are telling
me to go on war and here You are telling me
to become 'saakshi', the witness?"
Krishna was a Father.
He said, 'This gentleman won't understand
in a straight way.'
Because Krishna is a special incarnation of
diplomacy, he understand how human beings
are, like a Father you see.
He won't tell straight forward.
He will say 'all right you want to do it go
ahead.'
You want to jump in the sea go ahead.
So He said, "All right," it's very interesting
we don't understand Gita also without Realization.
Like a father who comes out of his house and
sees his son trying to drive the cart.
So he says, "All right you want to drive the
cart please put the horse before the cart."
But the son says, "No I can put the horse
behind and drive the cart."
He said, "All right do it no harm.
Only put your attention there."
So he says that, "All right you do all your
work, but put it at the Lotus Feet of the
God."
You cannot do it, is an absurd condition.
You cannot do it; absurd condition.
But when you get your Realization you don't
say "I do it".
You say, "It's going", "it's coming", "it's
working", "it's happening".
You become a third person; 'akarm'.
The second he said about 'bhakti' is the devotion.
He said 'pushpam; all the flowers and fruits
and all these you give Me, I take them' but
where did He play?
On the word 'ananya' means you have to do
the devotion when you are not the other 'ananya'.
Now when are you like that?
When you are one within and also is logical
that unless and until you are connected within
what sort of a bhakti [devotion] you are doing
here?
You must be connected.
Only 'bhakti' you can do is to say that "Connect
me".
But otherwise if you are not connected, if
the telephone is not connected what are you
telephoning?
Is as simple as that, is very logical.
So the whole 'Karma Yoga' and 'Bhakti Yoga'
is nothing but that you get your Self-Realization
first.
Now this is the problem with human beings
that they want to live on words, but how long?
Nothing is difficult.
So far I have not seen it is a difficult thing
to do.
It has worked out.
Any other question please?
[From the audience someone asks a question
related to astrology, the question is not
audible]
Mother: Is of no consequence.
Seeker: Is of no consequence?
Mother: No consequence
This is very subtle, above everything else,
makes no difference.
But later on I find because we are problematic
people and the Kundalini comes down to help
you in different places.
And I find that sometimes the people how they
are made at their birth by astrology behave
in different manners.
But still the sign and all these things that
are so gross do not bind you.
You just throw them away and get out of it.
So it's nothing important.
You go beyond all stars, beyond all science
and things.
It is of help in a way; for example they cast
My horoscope in India and they discovered
something about Me and which is something
very fantastic I should say.
It has something.
For example: discovering this, you may think
'what is it discovering this?'
'What was the use of the Kundalini has nothing
to do it?'
But today only on the radio I could give Realization
to many people.
On the television you can give Realization
to people.
So this is also useful.
Everything is achieved for Self-Realization.
Science has achieved everything for Self-Realization.
It is at the service of God and whatever is
not is all destructive.
Even I would say atom bomb is important otherwise
people would never have thought of God.
Seeker: Yes; On to religion, Catholics why
is it that they make such a do of the Pope?
He's only flesh and blood.
Mother: What do they do?
Sahaja Yogi: Why do Christians and Catholicism
particularly make such a thing of the Pope?
He's only flesh and blood.
Mother: You better go and ask them.
About this Pope John, I went with My Husband
to Cranko and being a VIP or something, they
asked Me, "What would You like to see?"
I said, "I would like to see some good Church."
So they took Me to Cranko where this fellow
was the Cardinal and they held some sort of
a mass.
I was sitting there and then I shook hands
with him and had tea with him and I rose his
Kundalini.
It came and went back in the same shot.
But sometimes when he is talking sense, the
Kundalini is up there; you see it come up
and goes down.
Still he's not established himself; the same
fellow who became the Pope.
But why they make out of it is this because
Mr. Paul who is in the Bible.
I don't know why he's there; has done all
this.
Now first you must ask Me a question 'Why
Mother Mr. Paul is there in the Bible?'
Can you explain to Me that?
He never saw Christ; he had nothing to do
with Christ.
Now I am asking you a simple question you
see, from God's side.
Somebody must ask from God's side also sometimes
some questions.
All right now this gentleman was just torturing
Christians, he becomes epileptic, he sees
some cross as he says.
Whatever it is, sees something so what?
And then he is in the Bible.
How come?
Now he is not a free soul.
If you accept Paul, this I had said long time
back, you will have to give up Christ and
that's what is happening today.
All right and even Protestants because I took
My birth in Protestants, among Protestants.
I know them.
I know about all of them - Christians and
Hindus and Muslims and every one, are all
funny fanatics.
But the Protestants are very sophisticated
fanatics.
It's impossible to talk to them, specially
in India.
Oh baba!
They are so sophisticated, they've done all
the science of the Bible.
They've made science out of Bible.
Bible is so great how can you put it in the
science?
Science is a wee part of it.
You agree there with Me?
So now first let us accept we are first and
foremost human beings and we have to become
super human beings as realized souls.
Whether you are Christian, Catholics, Hindus,
Muslims anything.
It should be such, how can it be different?
Does God know that you went to a Anglican
Church or to another Church?
Does he, will he know?
Accha tell Me, do you think he will know all
these things?
Do you think?
Somebody must be keeping a record.
Do you think so?
I mean is it not ridiculous the way we fight
about these things.
Can He keep record of all these things?
And it's not only about Christians, it's same
in Hindus.
Hindus are very fanatic, Sikhs are fanatics,
Muslims are fanatics; all blind people are
there.
But they are good people you know?
They believe in it.
They are innocent; they believe that what
they believe into is the truth.
They have to just know that the truth is universal
and is for everyone.
You cannot claim anyone as your own.
Actually by that you've killed the truth.
Like a tree has many flowers, living flowers
you pluck some of them saying this; this is
mine, this is mine and the flower dies and
that ugly flower becomes your fanatic religion.
It's not a living flower.
In Sahaja Yoga we know that all Prophets were
right.
What They said were right; we believe in Them.
We use Them on these different centers and
all the incarnations we use, but as far as
the outside religions are concerned we think
they need some cleansing and light.
Then everything will be all right.
You are Catholic?
I mean you educated, I am sorry now you are
no.
But whether the education was in Catholic
Church?
If you want to hear about Christians, go and
ask Muslims.
If you want to hear about Muslims, go and
ask Hindus.
If you want to hear about Hindus, go and ask
Buddhist.
You'll get the full picture about them.
You see we can see what others are we don't
see what we are.
True.
Sahaja Yogi: Any other question?
Mother's going to give you the experience
tonight, so why don't we do it now?
Just lift your shoes off so that your feet...
Mother: You better take out your shoes.
That's all I make humble request, that's all.
I hope it's not difficult to take them out.
I'll stand up I think.
Paul, can you help Me please?
Sahaja Yogi: She wants to stand....
Mother: There are lots of saints behind sitting
there and you all have to become saints.
For that just you have to put your hands on
your lap as they do for Namaz like that because
these fingers as you will see there are indicative
of your sympathetic nervous systems, left
and right and they form centers.
So just put your hands like this.
Now this hand represents the power of desire
as you will see on the left hand side and
this hand represents the power of action.
Now what we have to do is to release our own
centers by giving help to them and the Kundalini
will then rise immediately because if the
centers are augmented or constricted then
Kundalini has to fight it.
To make things easier for Her, we'll have
to put our hand, right hand on different centers,
which I'll tell you, which is very simple.
You don't have to do much about it.
So now the right hand that is the power of
action we'll be using for touching different
parts like the heart, the stomach, the lower
part of the stomach, then here at the base
of the neck like this and then here on the
forehead.
Ultimately on top of our head where the bone
was soft, the fontanel bone area.
That's all.
It's very simple one by one I will tell you.
Another thing very important is that you should
not open your eyes till I tell you because
the happening has to take place within.
Your attention should be inside and not outside.
It will be sucked in.
You don't have to do, don't fight with it,
don't fight with your thoughts, don't fight
with anything.
Just let it loose it will work out.
You have to sit comfortably in a straight
manner without being lousy or without being
over alert.
Just sit in a very comfortable manner with
your left hand towards Me and the right hand
on the heart.
You may take out your spectacles or anything
because you have to keep your eyes shut all
the time.
It helps also the eye sight.
Now put the left hand on your heart.
Sahaja Yogi: Right hand
Mother: I am sorry put your right hand on
the heart and left hand towards Me.
At the very outset I have to tell you one
thing that you should not feel guilty about
anything because that's one of the biggest
hurdles in the West.
So before saying anything you have to tell
yourself that 'I am not guilty, I am not guilty,
I am not guilty'.
Close your eyes and say that.
You are not to put your neck very much backwards
or forward or in any abnormal way, but sit
comfortably.
Now, on the heart you have to put your right
hand and all the time keep the left hand towards
Me.
At this stage you have to ask Me a question
because I said you are a computer and this
is a very absolute question.
You can call Me Mother or Shri Mataji whatever
suits you.
'Mother, am I the Spirit?'
Ask this question, three times.
Please don't open your eyes, keep the left
hand towards Myself and put your right hand
on your stomach in the upper-part; in the
upper-part of the abdomen on the left hand
side.
We have to just look after the left hand side
of our centers.
So put the right hand on the left hand side
of the upper part of your stomach.
Here lies the center of mastery; the Guru,
the Prophets.
So here you have to say, because you have
already asked a question that 'Mother, am
I the Spirit?'
You have to ask now another question relevantly
with it.
'Mother, am I my own Guru?'
Because if you are the master, if you are
the Spirit, automatically you become the master.
Unless and until you are the Spirit you do
not become the master.
So the second question should be 'Mother am
I my own master?
Am I my own Guru?
Mother, am I the Prophet?'
Three times please.
Now, now we start with the real asking by
putting our right hand in the lower part of
our abdomen in the left hand side.
The right hand on the lower part of our abdomen,
stomach, on the left hand side and press it
a little bit.
Here now is the beginning of asking for the
true knowledge, for the true technique, for
the pure knowledge.
So please ask Me six times because this center
is very important and has six petals, six
sub plexuses it controls.
Please ask six times because I cannot force
you to do it unless and until you ask for
it because you are free.
To respect your freedom I have tell you that
you have to ask 'Mother may I have the true
knowledge, the pure knowledge of the Spirit?'
six times.
Now you must be confident about it, you should
not be diffident, you should ask with full
confidence.
Now, six times.
Please don't feel guilty and be confident.
Now we have to raise it so we go back to the
same position on the left side of our stomach
in the upper part.
Please put your right hand on the upper part
of your abdomen on the left hand side.
Now here you have to assert with full confidence.
Ten times you have to say because there are
ten valences we have, we have Ten Commandments
and ten times the Primordial Master incarnated
on this Earth.
So we have to say ten times in full confidence
'Mother I am my own master.
Mother I am my own Guru.
Mother I am the Prophet'.
Now please say it ten times.
Don't feel guilty, please don't feel guilty.
[Mother blows Cool Breeze twice.]
Now ten times; raise your right hand after
saying ten times, to your heart.
Again here there are twelve sub plexuses,
so you have to assert with full confidence
by saying 'Mother I am the Spirit', which
is the truth.
Without feeling guilty you must say that because
God is the ocean of love, he is the ocean
of compassion.
He is the ocean of forgiveness and what kind
of guilt you can have?
What kind of sin you can commit that He cannot
forgive?
So don't try to count your sins and count
your mistakes and count your guilt just say,
'Mother I am the Spirit'.
Now saying this about twelve times you raise
your right hand at the base of the neck and
press it hard on the shoulder.
This center is always caught up.
So again I have to say that for sixteen times
you have to say, 'Mother I am not guilty'
and if you have the habit of feeling guilty
too much better say it hundred and eight times
to punish your self.
I am assuring you that you are not guilty
but if you want to say that again and again
all right go ahead with it for hundred and
eight times.
Don't feel guilty otherwise you'll miss the
point.
[ Shri Mataji guides someone in the audience]
From the front hold it from the front not
from the back, 'saamne se hath lijiye, aise
pichese nahin, saamne se haath lijiye', tell
him.
That gentleman also, that one.
Haan!
Better from the front, much better.
Sixteen times; believe in yourself.
Have faith in yourself, forgive yourself.
First of all you forgive yourself.
Or at the most you can say that 'O Lord forgive
me', but don't feel guilty while saying that.
[Mother to Sahaja Yogi: You shouldn't disturb,
I know what to do.
I don't want to listen to you.]
Now... you have to raise your hand up to your
forehead
and here you have to say in a very simple
words, 'Mother I forgive everything, I forgive
everyone' with full heart in it.
Now some people told Me it's very difficult
and this and that but actually when you don't
forgive, what do you do?
Or when you forgive what do you do?
Nothing, it's all mythical.
On the contrary you are torturing yourself
by not forgiving.
So please say from your heart, 'Mother I forgive
everyone'; on your forehead.
Now, now raise your hand on top of your head,
put it on the fontanel bone area, your palm
and press it and move it clockwise, your scalp.
At this point you have to say, 'Mother please
give me my Realization' because I cannot cross
your freedom again.
This you have to say seven times.
But before doing that please say that, 'If
I have done anything wrong, O Lord please
forgive me'.
Without feeling guilty again; three times.
Now seven times you say, 'Mother please give
me my Self-Realization' because I cannot cross.
[Mother blows the Cool Breeze twice...]
[What heat baap re...]
Now take down that hand.
[Mother blows Cool Breeze twice.]
Now put the left hand on top of your head
about four inches above and see for yourself
if there's a Cool Breeze coming in.
[Mother blows Cool Breeze seven times]
Now change your hands and see for yourself
if there's a Cool Breeze coming in.
Right side is clear, good.
Now left side.
Again change your hands and see if there is
a Cool Breeze coming.
Ah! better.
Mother to Sahaja Yogi: You have to ask the
master question, Holy Ghost; later not just
now.
Mother: Now those who are not feeling the
Cool Breeze raise your hands please.
Please raise them high so that they could
see.
Now the Sahaja Yogis will come and attend
to you.
Now don't get upset with them.
If you are not feeling the Cool Breeze raise
your hands and if you are feeling it you got
it.
She's got it, Vishuddhi, it is, she feels
guilty.
You felt it?
Have you felt it?
Not yet?
All right; Aapko nahin hua?
Aarahe hai.
Some have felt, some have not felt doesn't
matter.
Sahaja Yogi: Just describe again what they
should feel
Mother: You should feel a Cool Breeze coming
out of your head like a cooler.
There might be hot coming in doesn't matter.
You got it?
Sahaja Yogi: ...He's got a Cool Breeze coming
from his hand into his head.
Mother: Correct!
Now just see if it is coming from your head
or not.
Just check.
Tell him to say that 'Mother come in my head'.
This lady, Derrick you go, just come and see.
It's better now, see.
You may ask 'Is this the Cool Breeze of the
Holy Ghost?'
What about this lady?
Ya, no somebody should attend to her and this
one.
Is there some another way someone should come
and attend to this lady?
'Aaapka nahin hua?
Ho gaye?
Aaraha hai?
Ho gaye paar?
Paar utara gaye sant jana re.
Haan'
From the audience: There's slight tingling
on this palm.
Mother: In the left hand?
Ask him to ask the question of Holy Ghost.
On the left hand if they have tingling you
can very easily do that.
Sahaja Yogi: Anyone who's getting the tingling
or not getting the vibrations on the left
hand...
Mother: No, no let them tell them privately;
don't make it open
Sahaja Yogi:...just put your left hand to
Mother.
Mother: Ask the question
Sahaja Yogi: Give me the Cool Breeze of the
Holy Ghost.
Mother: No, 'Are You the, Mother are You the
Holy Ghost?'
I am asking to ask 'Mother are You the Holy
Ghost?'
Aa raha hai (it's coming?) left hand towards
Me.
Left hand towards Me.
From the audience: 'Mother, are You the Holy
Ghost?
Are You the Holy Spirit?
Mother: All right the tingling has gone, the
answer has come, now recognize.
May God bless you.
Now this gentleman, what about the one who
was worried about the Pope?
Did he feel the Cool Breeze?
This lady she's got it.
What about you?
Lady from the seekers: ...tingle
Mother: tingle on both the hands?
Lady: ..On both the hands
Mother: She has both the hands give her a
bandhan.
Haan ab bas shanti dharo, chit mein hi shanti.
This gentleman - Maria?
You have not forgiven; keep your eyes open
and watch Me and say 'Mother I forgive'.
Seeker: Mother I forgive everyone.
Mother I forgive everyone.
Sahaja Yogi: Getting less tingle?
Just say it again ..., while looking at Mother.
Mother: Ho gaya jagaran?
Have got it.
You got it sir?
Inke bhi ho gaya (he also got it).
Aap unke sar pe dekhiye aura (you see on top
of his head, aura).
Haan has he got it?
Tingling left?
Ask him to ask the question of the Holy Ghost,
you ask.
Just enjoy don't think about it; just enjoy
yourself, you got it.
Now you have to establish yourself that's
the most important part and in Leicester we
have a very powerful Sahaja Yogi, .. has spoken
to you.
Sahaja Yogi: Just say 'Shri Mataji are You
the Holy Ghost?
Shri Mataji are You the Holy Ghost?'
Mother: Holy Ghost mane [means] Adi Shakti.
Haan
Sahaja Yogi: You are feeling it on your left
hand?
Mother: That's the answer.
What about this lady?
She got it?
She's got it.
Sahaja Yogi: ...she is Sahaja Yogi
What about her?
Haan what about this one, this gentleman with
spectacles?
Is she all right...?
Good.
Dekhiye sab paar hogaye.
Tell him not to feel guilty.
This gentleman here
Sahaja Yogi: Yellow shirt
Mother: Yellow shirt, please don't feel guilty.
What about the gentleman behind.....he's all
right, he's got it, he's got it.
John you better get their names, who belong
to Leicester.
Maria, Maria come.
Gavin I saw I think?
Sahaja Yogini: Yes he's here.
Mother: He's here; all right, all right.
What do you say comes up and down?
Tie it up, tie it up.
Gavin...
Sahaja Yogi: ..he's the Indian gentleman
Mother: Haan he's what?
Ask him to pull his ears.
Sahaja Yogi: He's feeling it now, he pulled
his ears.
Please work in silence.
Sahaja yogi: It's very important that you
should follow-up this experience.
There is a center in Leicester and at that
center they can teach you very simple techniques
some of which you've seen being done now to
purify and remove these blockages in the charkas.
They'll teach you how to raise your Kundalini
how to establish it, how to develop your vibrations
and then ultimately how to cure yourself,
how to cure others and how to give others
self-realization.
It's so simple that you have to work it out
together.
John is going to be here ultimately and meanwhile
they are going to have regular meetings so
that you can follow it up.
John will tell you little more.
[Mother: Agya; she has very bad Agya.
Ask her to forgive everyone.]
John: We'll be holding meetings every Thursday
evening at his place; probably in the other
room but in this building, 7.30 Thursday evenings.
If you come along we can help you to maintain
this experience and also to deepen it because
what's happened this evening is like a seed
as I say it's not become a old tree yet.
It's still a seed so by nurturing it, protecting
it, watering it so on.
It will enable it to grow and that's what
you can do at these meetings.
Very soon you can learn as much as the Sahaja
Yogis here have learnt, maybe even more hopefully
by Shri Mataji's blessings.
There's an address list that we are taking
if you'd like to leave us your name and address
we can then get in touch and you know in any
other big meetings we can send you a post
card reminding you where our regular meetings
are and we'll also put in the address of the
center, the Sahaja Yoga center and then if
you have any problems any [stage?] or anything
like that you can contact us and we can tell
you what to do and so on.
Thank you very much
[Mother: So I am very thankful for all this...What
was the name of the gentleman on the TV?
Sahaja yogi: The interviewer?
Mother: No the other person.
He's the main person...
Sahaja yogi: He's the editor, the film editor.]
Mother: Now I have to tell you one thing,
you should not discuss about your realization
too much.
Please Sahaja Yogis also should know.
You see you are all Sahaja Yogis and you have
achieved it, but they are still just, they
have just gone into it.
So try to understand, they are not like you
that whatever is the situation you keep there.
They, you have attained it, they have to attain
still.
So keep quiet and another thing is please
don't think about it don't talk about it too
much.
Work it out.
Its not that by talking is will work out on
the contrary the more you'll think about it
the worse it will be.
It's like a small little plant, a little shoot.
We have to be now careful with it, respect
it and gradually when you'll be coming to
those meetings you'll develop it.
While the Sahaja Yogis who are here, all are
experts and whatever may happen even there's
earthquake...